you've probably heard of Pavlov's dogs
the phrase that often summarizes dr.
Ivan Pavlov's early 20th century
research in which he demonstrated that
we can alter what stimuli elicit a
reflexive response in canines he showed
this by sounding a bell just before he
presented his group of dogs with meat
powder after many presentations of the
bell followed by tasty meat powder the
dogs eventually began to salivate at
just the sound of the bell they salivate
'add even when there was no meat powder
present this phenomenon isn't limited to
dogs consider the placebo effect in
which a pill with no active substances
brings about a response similar to a
pill with the substance present what
changes here is our reaction to our
ailment such as perceiving less pain and
not the ailment itself or consider the
love humans have for a parent some would
argue that this love is instinctual and
they might be partially right but the
argument fails to account for the equal
amount of love that children adopted
later in life hold for their adoptive
parents but the behaviors argument can
account for both accounts of love
apparent biological or not is constantly
paired with things like food smiles toys
affection games protection and
entertainment and appearance constant
association with these wonderful or
crucial aspects of a child's life as a
similar albeit more complicated effect
that meat powder had on Pavlov
salivating dogs in other words if one's
parent is predictive of really good or
really important things then one's
parent becomes a really good and
important thing - and there's also
romantic advice to be gained from
Pavlov's observations we all need food
to survive right and someone who can
provide such things in a delicious
saliva producing manner stands to become
our human equivalent of a ringing Bell
in other words if you can cook one or
more scrumptious meals for a potential
love interest there's a good chance that
you'll be viewed more favorably in the
future even if you didn't prepare the
delicious food and who wouldn't want the
love of their life drooling over them
but life is not just bell rings and
salivation there's also a dark side to
this type of learning
called taste aversion taste aversion
occurs when we ingest some food that
eventually makes us sick and as a result
we avoid that food sometimes for the
rest of our lives
taste aversion is so powerful that the
effect can be seen even if the illnesses
experienced hours later and even if the
food itself did not actually make us
sick such is the case when we have the
flu and by accident we ingest some food
moments prior to vomiting in this case
we know that the food did not cause the
vomiting but our bodies don't know that
and the next time we encounter that food
we are likely to refuse eating it now
imagine the potential consequences of
undercooking a meal on a first date if
the food makes your date sick it is
possible for them to associate that bad
feeling with not just the food but with
your food in particular if the episode
was traumatizing enough or if it also
happens on the subsequent date they may
come to relate you with the consequences
just like Pavlov's dogs related the bell
with the meat powder in other words the
sight of you showing up but the next
dinner date might actually make your
date nauseous as the old saying goes the
fastest way to someone's heart is
through their stomach assuming you don't
make them sick in the process